every video I make is the first video
that somebody somewhere watches on this
channel so I just say as a disclaimer
before I get into the core topic of this
video that I have made videos in the
past talking about the concept of
abolitionism and talking about my
specific objections to the approach of
cari Francie ohne and of the
abolitionist definition of veganism as a
political movement and I have not talked
about this in a shallow way I'll also
just say that if you watch those earlier
videos you will find that I do I'd not
only sympathize with the moral instincts
with the motivations people have for
using the concept of fie of
abolitionists veganism but in some
contexts I do describe myself as an
abolitionist and I talked about
abolition I talked about the abolition
of factory farming as a goal that vegans
desire so this is not a shallow reaction
to the word or the idea of evolutionism
but I thought I'd make a video now which
is not redundant with my earlier videos
talking about what I think is the most
fundamental flaw in the abolitionist
approach to veganism at its heart I feel
that the abolitionist approach refuses
to admit of a distinction between
descriptive and prescriptive ethics
these are fancy philosophical terms what
does that mean we can make analytical
statements about good and evil
I vote good and bad about better and
worse that admit of complex shades of
grey' nuances contradictions we can make
those analytical statements and they
exist really in a completely separate
category from prescriptive statements
about the decisions we make or the
decisions we ought to make an
abolitionist vegan I just take my jacket
off for spelling
an abolitionist vegan will find it
deeply problematic to hear someone say
in a welfarist mode that a chicken with
free-range the ability to flap its wings
he is better off than a chicken that's
in a cage they want to create a simple
binary contrast between good and evil
and they want us all to come to the
conclusion that the whole factory
farming the whole apparatus of this
industry must be abolished the problem
is those two things exist in two
completely separate categories if you're
asking me for my recommendation if
you're asking me what decision you
should make as an individual I can
prescribe I can make the prescriptive
statement you ought to become vegan you
should become vegan this is the correct
decision for you to make and completely
separately I can engage in an analytical
discussion of good and evil of degrees
of difference of shades of gray that
admits that you know what even though I
believe theoretically that it would be a
wonderful thing if everyone stopped
eating chicken meat and therefore this
industry could disappear nevertheless I
can recognize that the welfarist s--
also have a point that there are
meaningful differences between one form
of farming and another that there's
meaningful difference between a bird and
the forest that not only gets to flap
its wings but gets to explore the
wilderness that gets to live a natural
life that gets to mate and reproduce
with its own species a bird that lives a
wild and free life until one day a
hunter shoots out of the sky I can see a
difference between that and a hen that
lives its whole life in a steel cage
that never sees the sky for whom its
whole world is nothing but steel and
concrete waiting in captivity one day to
die I can admit of those differences and
why not the abolitionist approach in
refusing to separate descriptive from
prescriptive refusing to separate
analytical evaluations of things from
the advice given on what decision you
should make what you can do as an
individual or we should do as a society
or political decisions etc they're in
the position of someone who is refusing
to admit that you can for example
compare degrees of difference when
looking at two different genocides in
the history of the world or two
different programs of ethnic cleansing
now I understand why you would not want
to allow that kind of discussion if I
were a history teacher in a high school
I would not allow my students to debate
that because it's so sensitive it's so
offensive and high school students
probably don't know what they're talking
about and probably will play very fast
and loose with topics that include the
deaths of millions of people crimes
against humanity etc etc nevertheless I
mean in my own research in the last
couple of years I remember looking at
real questions of ethnic cleansing of
forced assimilation of genocide within
the Communist world and not only would I
think comparatively about how is this
similar to and how is this different
from genocides in history of fascism but
I would also look at how compared to the
history of Canada you know how did
Russia force its indigenous ethnic
minorities its tribal peoples its native
peoples to assimilate into Russian
culture to start using the Russian
language there are many striking
parallels to the decisions that the
Canadian government made in forcing the
native people of Canada to speak English
to abandon their traditional religion
the traditional culture etc and we've
now had trials in Canada we've had real
questions though either use of the word
genocide to describe that part of our
history I'd say it's a major political
issue still today in Canada but has been
over the last 50 years dealing with the
legacy of that in comparing those things
in admitting that there are gray areas
and that there are degrees of difference
in how evil something is it's not simply
the case that everything we call
genocide is equally as terrible as the
Nazis the Nazis being the the symbol of
you know inestimable evil in human
history you know it may be that we could
admit that you know there are other
forms of genocide that are terrible in
their own way and in an analytical sense
we can look at those gray areas and
evaluate and appreciate those degrees of
difference
and that does not in any way destroy the
moral basis we have when speaking about
prescriptive ethics when we're making a
statement but what one should do what
one ought to do what you as an
individual ought to do or we as a
society ought to do or politically what
the government ought to do if we
actually had a conference bringing
together experts experts let's say on
the history of North Korea communism in
Korea and experts on the history of Iraq
we might actually have a conference
making comparative statements about
despotism in these countries about
government use of power about crimes
against humanity and there might be a
lot of gray areas discussed about better
and worse and the position that a
delicious abolitionists put themselves
in is the position of people who would
refuse to go to that conference who
would refuse to talk in any welfarist
terms about how to improve human rights
in North Korea or how to improve human
rights in Iraq or to engage in
discussions of better mores because they
feel that if they do they sacrifice the
moral high-ground of calling for
absolute abolition right so the
abolition of animal agriculture in one
case the abolition of dictatorship or
you know governments that commit crimes
against humanity and you know we get in
effect a terrible narrowing of the mind
on this basis if you were asked me why
is there this tendency in abolitions
veganism I would say entirely results
from monotheism basically from
Christianity may be to some extent
Judaism but mostly you know American
Christianity a way of thinking about
ethics in the Christian tradition that
it both shapes people who are actively
you know believers in monotheism which
carry Francey only definitely is he's a
passionate believer in monotheism and
you know also culturally I think it
shapes the way people think about ethics
who may identify as atheists but whom
culturally have grown up with received
Christian traditions I can say I've done
an enormous mess Kolsch upon Buddhism
I'm not a Buddhist religiously but I
know a lot about Buddhism within a
Buddhist culture it is impossible for me
to imagine
the misconceptions the ethical model of
abolitionist veganism ever-evolving
in a Buddhist context and this would be
a much longer video if I start to
explain to you why but culturally and in
terms of the philosophy of ethics that
people grow up with Buddhism would shape
a very different set of preconceptions
and different problems to believe me
Buddhism has its disadvantages it's not
entirely advantageous but I do think
this this reflects a Christian cultural
background this is not the only problem
with evolutionism the way they talk
about slavery and the history of the
abolition of slavery in that states is
extremely problematic it leads to
recommendations that are
counterproductive and a historical and I
think they're misleading and immoral and
wrong and dumb let's be blunt so you
know there are many specific themes like
that in terms of strategy and tactics
and you know the supposed lessons
learned from history where I think that
the the abolitionists are on the wrong
foot and our leading vegans down the
wrong path and in my earlier videos I
have talked about many of those things I
think the way they misrepresent an
historical figure like Gandhi Mohandas
Gandhi some people go home Mahatma
Gandhi I think that the you know cynical
misrepresentation exploitation of
historical figures like that is deeply
problematic to some extent it's even
implicitly racist to be honest with you
they're not looking at Mohandas Gandhi
with the same critical eye that they
would look at a European political
figure or you know they're not looking
at the civil war with the United States
frankly in a very so perfo way either
so you know there are many specific
issues and topics on which in the past I
already have many videos criticizing
them and there were more productive
areas of critique for us to learn from
moving forward as a movement again I do
sympathise with the moral impulse that's
driving these people forward and I do
sympathise many of the objectives they
wish to achieve although I think they
never will achieve but yes it is deeply
problematic to me that we have this
tendency that would for example reject a
vegan forever embracing a single-issue
cause the demonization in a really
Christian sense the demonization of all
single-issue causes on the grounds that
some single issue causes or immoral so
if I am a vegan
and I want to save the Dolphins because
I know about a dolphin population and
they need habitat conservation and a
group of activists really can advocate
for a small area of habitat to be
conserved to save one population of
dolphins in one place at one time now
I'm not a real vegan know I'm a fake
vegan because that's a single issue
cause huh that this this is insane and
why because we're supposed to piously
believe in this crypto Christian idea
that the dolphins are equal to the
crickets and the crickets are equal to
the Penguins and the Penguins are equal
to the mosquitoes and the cockroaches
and if you killed mosquitoes and
cockroaches and rats then you're not a
real vegan it all gets tied up in a bow
in one great Catholic you know fantasy
of moral purity which ultimately makes
us impossible for us to practically form
coalition's practically yes Lobby
government on single issue causes
practically engage in the advocacy for
wild animals whether it's dolphins or
bears or what have you to brush with it
with any any specific issue because
we're supposed to be beholden to this
generalized abstraction this holy idea
of all animals in their totality each
being equal to all the others so this is
massively called counterproductive way
of thinking about the world yes some
single issue causes our moral some are
incompatible with veganism many are not
there's absolutely nothing wrong with
advocating for the dolphins I don't mean
I don't mean dolphins out one specific
population of dolphins trying to save
some dolphins because those dolphins
have needs that the crickets don't have
doesn't mean you hate crickets maybe you
do so what you can be vegan and hate
crickets crickets make noise keep you up
at night it can be a problem Real Talk
but yeah your problem we say we'll look
where I live we've got a bunch of
dolphins and they're endangered and
they're in trouble
and they need somebody to advocate for
them so that their habitat gets
preserved so they don't go extinct and I
want to be one of those people I want to
do something positive in the world and
that doesn't make me any less of a vegan
and god damn you for trying to make me
feel ashamed and try to say I'm a fake
vegan because it's a single issue cause
we'll talk